CHARACTER_NAME

This variable displays the name of your current character. It is typically
shown in status prompts, system messages, and logs. Your character name is
unique within the game world and is used to identify you to other players and
NPCs.

#
ALIGNMENT

This variable represents your character’s moral and ethical standing, ranging
from -500 (deeply evil) to +500 (strongly good). A value near 0 indicates a
neutral alignment. Alignment can influence how NPCs treat you, which factions
or classes are available, and how certain spells or effects behave. Your
alignment may shift over time based on your actions and choices in the game
world.

#
HEALTH

This variable shows your character’s current health points (HP). It decreases
when you take damage from combat, traps, spells, or other harmful effects.

#
HEALTH_MAX

This variable shows the maximum amount of health points (HP) your character can
currently have. It determines the upper limit for healing and damage tracking.
Your max health can be influenced by your level, class, constitution, gear,
buffs, or other in-game effects. While HEALTH reflects your present
condition, HEALTH_MAX defines your total potential health capacity.

See also: HEALTH
#
ROOM_NAME

This variable displays the name of the room or location your character is
currently in. Room names help you navigate the world, remember important
places, and communicate your location to others. The name may also hint at the
area's theme, danger level, or notable features.

#
ROOM_VNUM

This variable displays the unique identification number (vnum) of the room your
character is currently in. VNUMs are used internally by the game to reference
specific locations and are especially useful for builders, developers, and
advanced players using maps, triggers, or scripts. While not always needed for
casual play, knowing the room VNUM can help with navigation, bug reporting, and
quest tracking.

#
LEVEL

This variable shows your character’s current level, which reflects their
overall progress, power, and experience within the game. As your level
increases, you may gain access to new skills, spells, equipment, and areas.

#
MANA

This variable shows your character’s current mana points (stamina), which are
used to cast spells and activate certain magical abilities. Mana decreases when
you use spells and regenerates over time or through rest, items, or special
abilities. Managing your mana is essential for magic users, as running out can
leave you unable to cast critical spells during combat or exploration.

#
MANA_MAX

This variable shows the maximum amount of mana your character can currently
have. It sets the upper limit for your spellcasting resource and determines how
many spells or abilities you can use before needing to recover. Your max mana
may be influenced by factors such as class, level, intelligence or wisdom,
gear, and magical effects.

See also: MANA
#
MOVEMENT

This variable shows your character’s current movement points, which are used to
travel between rooms, especially in wilderness or difficult terrain. Each step
or action that requires physical effort may reduce your movement total.
Movement points regenerate over time and can also be restored through rest,
items, or abilities. If you run out of movement, your travel may be slowed or
halted until you recover.

#
MOVEMENT_MAX

This variable shows the maximum number of movement points your character can
currently have. It determines how far or how often you can move before needing
to rest or recover. Your max movement is influenced by your level, stats like
dexterity, class, equipment, and temporary effects such as buffs or debuffs.
Maintaining a high movement max is important for exploring, escaping, and
surviving in challenging environments.

#
MONEY

This variable shows the amount of copper your character currently possesses.
 This stat can be influenced by gear, buffs,
debuffs, and leveling.

#
RACE

Different races in Arda have varying abilities and disadvantages; here is a
basic chart comparing the attributes of all player controllable races.

#
STR

This variable shows your character’s current strength stat.

#
INT

This variable shows your character’s current intelligence stat.

#
WILL

This variable shows your character’s current will stat, representing mental
strength, focus, and resistance.

#
DEX

This variable shows your character’s current dexterity stat.

#
CON

This variable shows your character’s current constitution stat.

#
LEA

This variable shows your character’s current learning stat.

#
STR_PERM

This variable shows your character’s maximum strength stat.

#
INT_PERM


This variable shows your character’s maximum intelligence stat.

#
WILL_PERM


This variable shows your character’s maximum will stat, representing mental
strength, focus, and resistance.

#
DEX_PERM


This variable shows your character’s maximum dexterity stat.

#
CON_PERM


This variable shows your character’s maximum constitution stat.

#
LEA_PERM


This variable shows your character’s maximum learning stat.

#
WIMPY


This variable shows your character’s current wimpy health setting.

#
SPELL_SAVE


This variable shows your character’s current spell save value.

#
SPELL_PEN

This variable shows your character’s current spell peneration value.

#
SPELL_POWER

This variable shows your character’s current spell power value.
#~
